---
layout: post
title: Linux Fanatic Turned Windows Pragmatist
---
It was 1999, and I was a junior in high school when I installed Linux for the first time on my computer. It was a royal pain in the ass, but I enjoyed the challenge. The onboard modem did not work because it was software driven and my display was all kinds of messed up—thanks to integrated devices. Despite my inability to get my onboard soundcard working, my determination centered on getting Linux working. I had no clue what I was doing (a complete noob). My PC at the time was running Microsoft Windows 98, and I am almost sure Hewlett Packard had did not design it to run anything but Windows. But I was relentless in my determination to install this elusive yet foreign and fascinating operating system. But first I’d like to give you a little background on my Linux journey.

My father was an independent self-employed salesman for Mylec Street Hockey—ergo my love for ice, roller, and street hockey—and various boot companies. Around 1988, my father bought his first desktop computer, the Mac SE. Now, this computer was strictly for his work to use Lotus-1-2-3 to track sales and finances. My fascination for this nascent technology would grow to an intense obsession. It did not take long for my father to foster my interests and kindle my desire to learn about the enthralling exemplar of late 80s technological achievement. The first computer game I played, Dark Castle, which we got from a local MUG member. It was interesting, but the novelty wore off—a resounding theme with my computer game interactions—because of my overbearing curiosity to learn how the computer worked.

What was it about, this drab, boxy, device with its black and white display and 1 Megabyte of RAM? Everything! I could conceive its utter potential in my feeble prepubescent mind. To my parent’s dismay, I was curiously destructive; often they would come home only to discover I had disassembled the television, Betamax recorder, or later a VHS player. I had to know how things worked and sometimes—to my parent's fortune—I put some of these costly items back together. Although, I never performed such procedures on my father’s primary computer because I knew how crucial it was for his work. However, it wasn’t until my father handed-down his older Power Mac 7100 to me at a much later date that I explored the internals. The Power Mac was my first, very own computer that resided on my desk in my bedroom.

At the time, around 1994, there was this program allowed you to tinker with the Mac operating system and customize the splash screen and various other settings (mostly editing plist files). I thought it was so cool to personalize the operating system whereby the startup splash screen displayed “RushOS” with some absurd trailing version number—yes, I’m a dork. It was fun changing settings that escaped everyday computer users. But it was not until my father got a modem for the real fun to begin.

At first, it was the slow and loud dial-up to bulletin board systems (BBS) supported by local Mac User Groups in the local Pittsburgh area. I remember many times going with my father to these user groups, and at the time it seemed like a place for older men with yellowing beards faintly smelling of cigarettes to swap and sell software and old computer parts. Often there were members demoing computer games; times were different then because copies of the games were freely passed out. I am almost sure this is how we obtained our first computer game “Dark Castle.” I have completed very few computer games throughout my life. Computer games never captivated me like tinkering with software and operating systems did. So, I spent most of my time messing with system settings and customizing the user interface—small things that were amusing at such a young age.

My friends at the time had Windows machines, mainly IBM. I never developed the fondness I had for Macs for any of the Windows machines I encountered. I think it was Windows 3.1 and the constant necessity to use DOS that instilled a sour taste in my mouth. I despised DOS because it seemed so antiquated in comparison to the Macintosh operating system and it’s GUI—I was young and using a terminal was unappealing. Which is odd considering the love I developed for the Bash Shell. I could not avoid the Linux terminal when I first installed Linux. I can remember at first having no GUI, and I was almost overwhelmed with frustration in my attempts to get KDE to run on the Red Hat distro I bought from Barnes and Noble. Eventually, I realized it was useless on my current machine, so I built a second computer exclusively for Linux. 
Over the years I have bounced from Linux to Windows to Mac, and back again; however, I mostly used Linux up until now. I do not have a single machine running Linux natively and here is why.

I’m tired. Tired of having to fix issues to get a proper Linux machine running on my computer. I know vendors are delivering Linux on their devices, but I have always needed Windows for work. I regularly found myself tinkering with whatever flavor installed on my machine which hindered the real work I needed to get done. I have no clue how many times I have reinstalled and changed distros nuking my computer. I became the worst of distro-hoppers because something new and shiny would arrive on the distro I was not using. And right when Linux was getting more usable than ever, Windows 10 came along. Okay, before you curse at me, flip me off, or stop reading this, let me explain.

I fell victim to my idealism which was hindering my ability to progress in learning software development. I was a FOSS enthusiast who evangelized for open source software and more importantly Linux. But this was starting to wear down on me because I was using open source software at the expense of time and more importantly incessant frustrations—all self-induced I guess. Yes, I was tired paying a premium for Macs; furthermore, I was tired of all the frequent failures caused by Windows. But with Windows 10 and the most recent updates (build 16299), I get a Bash Shell with access to usable and more up-to-date tools than a Mac. I am sure there are those out there for whom the Windows 10 Subsystem for Linux doesn’t cut it, and we should expect that. You want to use the best tool for the job and me, right now, Windows 10 checks more boxes than Linux or Mac. Windows 10 is a massive improvement over previous versions, and I am sure all its detractors can chime in and blast me for such heretical blasphemy from a Linux veteran but I—as well as many others—can do the same for Linux. More surprisingly, Microsoft has started to embrace open source software (WSL, Visual Studio Code, FreeBSD for Azure, Xamarin SDK, .NET Core, etc.). Never would I have thought I would be making such statements, but I have become more of a pragmatist at the expense of my idealism. Of course, I want to see open source software used everywhere possible, but I now view my operating system as a tool. Furthermore, I specifically use Microsoft Access at my work which also uses Windows 10, keeping things uniform is just more straightforward. I know I can run Windows in a virtual machine; but why would I go through all the trouble just to satisfy an ideology. I can also use Docker for Windows—I only use Windows 10 Pro—when I reach a wall with WSL. Surprisingly, the world we now live in, Microsoft is changing; now, whether that’s good or bad is up for debate; but we should encourage such moves regardless of motivations.

Let’s face it, Linux is not going anywhere, it is undoubtedly the most prolific operating system (kernel) to exist—and it’s not going to fade into oblivion anytime soon. I think our idealism can cloud our thinking and perspective. Yes, I would love to see Linux replace Windows as the most dominant desktop operating system; however, let us not forget the plethora of Linux victories. Maybe it’s not so calamitous if we never see the “Year of the Linux Desktop.” Linux dominates so many sectors of the tech industry, and that is why Microsoft was compelled to add WSL to Windows 10. Maybe this is what the “Year of the Linux Desktop” is and the most it will ever be—please remember I am now a pragmatist. If Linux were to disappear from Universe the internet would cease to exist, the majority of cellphones would turn into bricks, IOT would become relics, nuclear submarines would sink, military drones fall from the sky, commercial airlines crash, self-driving cars stall, and supercomputers become space heaters. Can the same be said for Windows? Linux has revolutionized and shaped the world we live in and considering it is the youngest (first released September 17, 1991) of all its competitors, that is truly phenomenal. So, just maybe, just a little bit, we can accept that Microsoft brought us the “Year of the Linux Desktop.”